So far, all we've been doing ishard
coding that kind of manifest all of
the food data in but that's not typically
how we work with an application, right?
What we usually do is we bring
things be in via an API.
And we're going to use
vuex store to do so.
But we're also going to learn a new thing.
And that new thing is going
to be called a plugin.
That plugin is going to allow us
to execute logic on the server,
instead of calling it on
one of the components.
So far, we've just been calling
things from the component and
using them in the store.
But what if we wanted it to
build with everything [LAUGH]?
And Knox actually allows us to do that.
So that's pretty cool.
All right, so let's go back here.
And we are going to go into our store
like we did, we had our main food data.
And before it's all hard coded here, and
we have this gigantic array of values,
I'm gonna actually delete this
gigantic array of values.
And we're just gonna have
an empty array for now.
I'm going to use actions.
I think there were some questions
about actions, when to use actions and
mutations in the chat.
Just for review, mutations are the only
thing that can change the state.
So in our game application,
they're synchronous.
They're just gonna change the state.
So we're only working
with data synchronously.
Actions can't change the state,
actions can commit mutations
that change the state.
But actions are good for
asynchronous logic.
So in this case, what we're going to do is
we're going to use an action to do that
kind of async stuff, and that action
will call a commit in the mutation.
So we're gonna use both of them
in this next step, next section.
So we have export const actions.
I'm going to use async here, and
I'm gonna change the name
of this to getFoodData.
We're gonna pass in not just
the commit but the store as well.
The state, not the store, sorry.
The state as well because we're
gonna use that in just a minute.
Now since we used async,
we can now use async, wait and
I'm gonna use try and catch.
I'm gonna catch an error.
Don't worry about that commit for now.
I'm gonna pull this commit into the try.
But for now, I'm just gonna comment it
out because I'm not gonna use it yet.
We're gonna use it in just a second.
I wanna make sure that I console log or
console warn or whatever.
My error here in this try, that's where
I'm going to call the await part of this.
So I'm gonna do await.
And then I'm gonna use fetch and
you might be thinking, at the time of
this recording, fetch isn't supported in
every browser back in all of this stuff.
But actually next offers a polyfill so
that you can use fetch in within
next, and you can know that it's going to
actually perform well in other browsers.
Now, we're gonna call out to this API.
And let me go back to my slides for
a minute.
I wrote a tutorial on
how to set up DynamoDB,
use lambda as a serverless function
to pull in the DynamoDB data.
And also use API Gateway to
offer some a nice API, so
that you can call
the information that you need.
And it also goes through things
like how to do body mapping and
a few other things inside of there.
It's a very long article.
[LAUGH] It's like 32 pages long and
the netlify team did a really good job.
The netfliy marketing team did a great job
of putting it together in a way that you
can kind of read through all the sections.
It's out of the scope of the course
because it could be [LAUGH] a whole course
of its own.
But if you wanna dive in and
you wanna learn how to make
something like that with DynamoDB,
Lambda and API Gateway, that article will
show you and we actually build this API.
So you can actually build
that API if you like.
So here's our API.
I'm going to grab it,
If slides lets me [LAUGH] and
then I'm gonna go into VS code.
I'm gonna pass this in to fetch.
And then I'm also going
to create some headers.
And the reason I'm gonna create some
headers is that I actually want to
use an API key for this.
Typically we're gonna be
working with API keys.
I didn't have to create an API key for
this.
But that's the way I set up this tutorial
because that's kind of how people
are often going to be working with it.
So we're gonna say content
type is application JSON.
And then we're gonna say, x api key.
That's what Amazon is gonna expect is,
and this is something that NEXT offers us,
we can say process.env.awsapi key.
This is kind of standard for
when you're using a key like this.
I mentioned before that I had
in the food resources folder,
a thing that's like an end file
without a dot in front of it.
And that's because that dot
file is often get ignored.
And so I'm gonna create a .env file
at the base of my next food app.
And say, yes.
And I'm gonna paste in my API key.
It's okay if you know my API key.
I put a bunch of rate limiting
things [LAUGH] on my stuff.
You can play with the API all you want.
And so, I'm pasting in the API key.
And then, this process .env
is going to allow nuxt to
know to go grab that env folder.
And you can see that it's get
ignored because well vs code's
showing us all the things that it's kind
of lighting up green everything that we
haven't committed.
But I would also suggest just as
a good [LAUGH] thing to commonly
do anytime you add a file like
.env to just take a look inside
your get ignore file and make sure that
.env is get ignored because you don't
want that committed to GitHub so
that there's memory of your key.
Cool, so, once we do that,
we're gonna say .then,
and we're gonna pass in the response,
and we're gonn return response.json.
And the reason we do that is because
what we're getting at first from fetch
is a response object.
It's not actually going to be JSON,
we need response.json to actually
extract the JSON from that.
And then we're gonna .then again.
And we're gonna say, okay, get that data.
And now we're gonna do
things with that data.
And here's where we're gonna
be doing things with a commit.
So we'll save that.
I'm gonna console.log this just for now.
We'll remove that later, just so
what you can see when things are working.
That commit is gonna be update some value.
So I'm gonna say update food data and
then the payload is data.
Because that's what we're passing in here.
Cool, now we're gonna
go into our mutations.
And we're gonna say updateFoodData and
the state and
I'm gonna change this to data,
state.fooddata.
There you go.
So again,
what we're doing is we're using an action,
which is some asynchronous
logic to call a mutation and
the mutation is the thing that
actually changes the state.
That's the reason why we
have that separation there.
There's one last thing I wanna do.
I want to make sure that I'm
being as efficient as possible,
actually not inside the try.
Let's go above the try.
I'm going to say at the top here,
that if the state.fooddata
has length to it, then return.
So if you already got all of this
information, then don't go get it again.
Cool, we have all of this but
we're not calling it yet.
And you might think, well I could
go into the index page and I could
on a created life cycle method call
dispatch this and then populate the store.
But the problem with that is what if they
come not from the index page, are you
gonna then add that into every single
page and make multiple calls and things?
What would be much better since we're
serving in a kind of jamstacky way.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna build
and concatenate all of those files.
And we're gonna create dynamic
routes from all of these pages, but
we're also able to do things well,
we're creating things on the server.
So what we wanna do is we wanna call it
once while the pages are building and
do it really efficiently that way,
instead of calling it on the client.
And then having the person have to
wait for information to be loaded.
So I'm going to go into a new file here,
and I'm gonna call it get food.
[LAUGH] Cuz I just wanna call it get food,
I don't know.
And I'm going to do this special
thing where I say getfood.server.js.
And what that allows me to do is
tell nuxt, do this on the server.
Don't do this on the client.
And I'm gonna put this
in the plugins folder.
So then I can say, export, default async
and then I'm gonna pass in the store.
And then here,
I'm gonna say awaitstore.dispatch.
Remember we dispatch actions,
we commit mutations,
store.dispatch, what did I call it,
get food data?
Let's write it and then check,
store.dispatch get food data.
Yes, get food data.
We have one more step to do.
What we have to do now is we have
to go into our nuxt config, and
let it know that this plugin exists
just like we did with the CSS above it.
It's very similar.
So we're gonna say tilde and
then we're gonna say plugins and
then we're gonna say, get food.server.js.
Now remember when I said, every time we
touch the nuxt configure, make some plugin
registered or whatever, we have to
turn off the server and restart it.
So I'm gonna go over to
where our server is.
I'm going to turn it off and
turn it back on again.
Maybe we should have made sure
that everything is saved.
All right,
we'll check it again if it doesn't work.
So we go to localhost:3000 and
now we see all of that
information coming in.
But remember, it's not coming in from
that static piece of information.
Now it's coming in from our API.
So if we look and the way that we can
check that is, remember we console logged?
Well, console logging,
it's not gonna console log on the,
well actually, I'm wrong.
It's because in development mode,
it's going to,
nuxt SSR gives you access to that console.
I forgot about that.
But if you deploy this on to a client,
this is only gonna
happen in development mode,
it's not gonna happen in production mode.
In here inside of our console,
or inside of our server,
you can actually see all
of that data coming in.
Super cool.
So now we're bringing all of that in.
So we're bringing things in via API.
We have vuex store and
a plugin and we did it.